#Description
A demonstration of genetic algorithm that "evolves" a given text string from a random initial population. Inspired by a r/dailyprogrammer [challenge](https://www.reddit.com/r/dailyprogrammer/comments/40rs67/20160113_challenge_249_intermediate_hello_world) but I really got into it and the project evolved (no pun intended) into something more. The algorithm takes the template string and generates an inital "population" of randomly-generated character strings of the same length as the template. The size of initial population is specified by the user. It then evolves the string by selecting the best candidates according to the fitness function (which in this implementation is similar to Hamming distance) and applies genetic operators (recombination and mutation) to those individuals. Recombination simply "cuts" the strings at a randomly selected position and concatenates the first part of one string with the other part of the second. E.g: 'genetic' recombined with 'peaches' at position 3 (0-based) yields 'genehes'. Mutation means substituting a randomly-selected character from the string woth another randomly-selected character. The incidence of mutations is controlled by another user-supplied parameter, mutation chance. The selection method used is tournament selection ([more info](http://cstheory.stackexchange.com/questions/14758/tournament-selection-in-genetic-algorithms)) and the size of the tournament can also be tuned. The selection of hyperparameters is based largely on heuristics - there is no best combination. A general rule is as follows: larger population usually reduces the number of generations needed to converge to the template, but increases running time (especially on longer strings). Also, high mutation rate can lead to faster convergence, but setting it too high can lead to completely random solutions. Tournament size is best left at default (2).
The code is perhaps not the best-optimized - it was one of my first larger programming projects.  Still, it was one of the most fun things that I've done and it got me interested in biologically-inspired computing.
##What are genetic algorithms used for:
- neural network training (though now made somewhat obsolete by the improvements to backpropagation)
- solving problems with no clearly-defined solutions (or where 'good enough' is the best, e.g. the famed Travelling Salesman Problem [xkcd](http://xkcd.com/399/))
- scheduling / creating timetables (similar to above)
- design and engineering at NASA https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Evolved_antenna
- evolution of organisms, I guess (though in a slightly more powerful version)
